[00:00:00] Speaker 1: Okay. So here is this, uh, core gameplay loop for interalignment, and I'm going to be using a somatic IFS approach. And I'll talk about what that is. Oh, and, and I'm Sarah McManus. Um, I'm visiting here from, uh, Victoria, British Columbia, and also from the internet, as many of us are. And so here I'll get out of the way. Here is a QR code for the slides. I'll also have this link at the very end of the talk, so don't feel the need to frantically type anything. Uh, just, uh, enjoy. This will also have, uh, an optional, you know, experiential component. So, and that will involve, uh, writing some stuff down. So I have some paper, uh, note cards and pens over near that plant and mirror. If, uh, we want to kind of start passing those around, you won't need them for a little while. And if you already know you prefer working digitally, then go for that. Okay. So for this talk, I'm going to be drawing from, uh, two different modalities: remixed and kind of the, the 80/20. What is shared in this talk is not going to, you know, get you all the way to untangling the deepest depths of your most complex issues, every one of them, but it will provide a really good starting place that can give you some of the practices and the salt sense that will help you bootstrap to whatever else you need. So who, uh, who are familiar with internal family systems? Anybody raise your hand? Awesome. Um, how about coherence therapy? Untangling the emotional brain or unlocking the emotional brain? Awesome. Um, core transformation. Cool. Um, and I know we have, uh, uh, someone here that I met in a core transformation workshop, so if people have more depth of, uh, practice, there is so much deeper to go. This is touching the surface. Uh, feeding your demons.

[00:02:16] Speaker 2: Hmm.

[00:02:16] Speaker 1: Yeah. Yeah. Um, a, a Buddhist-inspired parts work practice. And, and then somatic practices in general, working with body sensations. Yeah. So, you know, some people have a lot of depth with some of these practices, and, uh, I just want to invite that what I'll be sharing is a really kind of core little move and experience that I, myself, forget many times. And so I'm still, you know, practicing this and getting more familiar and more familiar, wearing in that path so that it is more at hand when I am overwhelmed and upset and stressed. Okay. So this is agency school. Why are we talking about all this? Because it is really hard to just do things, to just do what you want, if your wants look like this. If they are like, "Wha-wha-wha-wha-wha," like a bunch of different layers of things all at the same time, very hard to distinguish what, what to do next. And what, what I hope that, uh, this will invite you into more access to is going from these kind of these tangles, this tug of war, to a more coherent flow. And one aspect of that is more effective actions because, as, um, Chris shared in his talk on Friday, you know, there is no amount of increasingly larger bears, stuffed animals, that will get you the felt sense of mom's love. So being able to untangle what actually are different parts of you trying to achieve will help you find more effective strategies to actually get the thing that will meet that. Similarly, people talk about pica, which is, um, sometimes when people have a nutritional deficiency, like low iron, they actually feel a draw to eat ice. But there's, there's no amount of ice that is actually going to give you an i-iron. And also, when you disentangle these, when you address, like, the needs and salt senses that are under different strategies, it can give you access to a wider possibility space for, for actions. So both of these things. Oh, yeah. So here's the outline. We're going to do, uh, I'm going to kind of describe the practice and invite you into it as we go and then have a space for kind of questions about that part and then go into another arc of experiential stuff, questions, and then an opportunity, you know, depending on time, for some live troubleshooting, uh, if people want to kind of go back and forth with that, and then just reflections. If you do have questions that come up in the in the middle of talking through some of the experiential stuff, if it's something that's absolutely blocking you from being able to engage with it, let's, let's, you know, raise your hand. Let's sort that out. If it's more of a, like, add-on, additional question, "What about this?" let's, let's wait till the kind of in-between section part. Okay. So for working with inner conflict, when I see people, um, going trying to self-facilitate this, where I often see people getting stuck is with one of two situations. One of those is grounding. If, you know, someone's contacting material, contacting, you know, emotions, sensations, judgments, stuff that threatens their identity, feels bad in their body, you might just bounce off it. People have had other slides, or you might just go do something else. The other one is tracking. There is also just the, the cognitive load, the attentional load of distinguishing, you know, different, let's call them, parts, different wants, needs, different body sensations, maybe happening at different layers, which we'll talk about. And one way of doing that or helping with that is by externalizing that onto something like note cards, something like, um, any kind of digital or paper implementation of that. These are also things that, uh, having someone else there can help, both with grounding and with tracking. And when you have these, what emerges is, you know, you might call it attuned presence, this, this spacious capacity to be with what's there, you know, inviting this unfolding and clarity. And different, um, practices might also call that different things. You know, you might have self-accompaniment. Sarah Peyton might call it the resonating self-witness, um, coherence empathy. I believe Pranav's going to call it connection. Uh, and then also often has these qualities of curiosity, compassion, and calm. So that sounds that sounds really nice, but, like, what you know, how do you do that? How do you get there if you're not already feeling it? And I will say, if you're already feeling it, you're good. You don't need this talk. This is some scaffolding. If you're having an experience actually, remember, you were actually a little less busy slide. Nope, nope, nope. Not that direction. If you are already in a situation where whatever you're feeling, whatever's arising, it's a good fit with the situation, you're either taking action or no action is needed, or if you are able to sit in, bear awareness, as Wiston and Michael were, um, inviting people into, and things unfold of themselves, fantastic. You also don't need the scaffolding. Chill out and rest out and bear awareness through this talk and, and have a good time. This is this is kind of the, you know, one option for scaffolding when those things you still feel weird and bad about something. So I invite you now to take a moment and just really notice what's arising and maybe do a little bit of a body scan. Maybe we've been having a full weekend thinking about agency, thinking about what you want, and actions that you might take toward that. And I invite you, if there's something that you feel maybe a little bit uncertain or conflicted about in that area, and maybe at, like, a 3 out of 10, maybe don't pick the absolute spiciest, 10 out of 10, deepest trauma, something that is a good fit for an experiment in this moment. And as you're kind of bringing that to mind, notice what's happening in your awareness, in your body. Maybe feeling the sensation of your feet on the ground, maybe your sit bones in the chair, feeling that support in your back against the chair and how all your weight's just kind of transferring to the ground. Noticing your breath. Not needing to change it, but just noticing how it feels as you breathe in and out. And also noticing, you know, how do things feel maybe around your, your throat or around your chest or your belly? Are there any a-areas of activation, tension, contraction? Uh, is there anything that, uh, needs your attention? And it may also be in the form of thoughts, emotions, images, memories, in addition to those, those body sensations. As you're sensing into that, invite you to notice what needs your attention first. You know, is there something that's really kind of jumping up and down, knocking on the door? And, you know, I can give an example here and say maybe somebody's feeling something, something, um, in, in let's say, you know, notice where in your body that might be. Let's say somebody's feeling something in, in the gut or something in the chest. Invite you to, to ask, ask yourself, "If this had, uh, what's the quality of this sensation? How would you describe it?" You know, if it had a temperature, would it be warm or cool? If it had a color, if it had a if it had a texture, would it be spiky? Would it be smooth? If it was moving, is it fast or slow? Is it heavy or light? And it may not have that quality, but just try on some options and see if any feel like a fit. Also notice if there's any other imagery that comes up. And if you already have a sense of maybe what you might call this, if it's familiar or if you have a guess, sink into that a little bit. If you don't if you're not clear on that yet, don't worry. And I invite you maybe to, to write this down on, on a piece of paper here. Um, for example, maybe somebody's feeling something in the chest. Maybe it's, um, cold, maybe heavy or tight. Maybe there's a quality of awayness, like a motion that it's, like, trying to get away. I'll give folks a little more time to just, you know, write down whatever's arising. And, and also the benefit of putting things on cards is you can decide where they're located in space around you. If you end up with a couple different cards, you can put them further or closer. You can put one underneath another one. And then I'll give you a few more seconds for that. As you're as you're doing that, I invite you to notice, how do you feel towards that experience or towards that sensation or towards that part? You can also ask, "Does it feel okay for that to be there right now?" Just kind of notice inside what, what comes up when you ask that. And you might notice that you've got some of that quality of curiosity, compassion, calm. You're like, "Yeah, I vibe with that. If so, amazing. Chill out for the next few slides. Just rest in that." In contrast, if you notice something like, "Ah," something like frustration, anxiety, disgust, you don't like that thing, you don't like that experience or sensation, you want it to go away, then I invite you to turn your a-attention toward that, that objection, hesitation, concern as its own thing. And, uh, then again, you know, maybe with a new card or a different part of a piece of paper, um, you can, uh, also notice, again, what qualities of body sensations are arising or what kinds of thoughts, words, imagery, emotion, mem-me-memories, how can you tell that you don't like the thing? And maybe if you have a sense of what would you call this or what's its deal, what's it about? Again, not needing to go too deep in that right now if it's not clear. You can make another card. And for example, maybe it's frustrated. Maybe when somebody feels a sense of fear and notices that, they're like, "Ugh, I don't ugh, grr." They're, like, notice their face going to scrunch up. They're like, "I don't I want the fear to go away. I don't like it." And indeed, we're going to iterate this again for this, uh for this, this new layer of sensation and experience. How do you feel towards that? Is it okay for that frustration or whatever layer it is, objection, to be there? You feel, "Yeah, you know, I can get to know this. I feel curious. I feel, feel calm about it." Or perhaps I could imagine somebody who, uh, is like, "No, I'm supposed to be a really good meditator. I'm not supposed to get stuck in frustration. I don't like it. I should be Zen already." You know, and maybe, again, maybe there's, uh, some qualities of sensation that come up, thoughts, images, words, memories. You can also, uh, write that down on a card, piece of paper, digitally. And the invitation here is basically to go up those layers until you encounter something where you in have a felt sense that's like, "Yeah, buddy, I get that. Like, yeah, okay." And maybe it is if, for example, somebody's like, "Yeah, it sucks to feel frustrated. I don't like that. I get that." You know, and there is this is if you get one thing out of this talk, I would rather spend, you know, way more time on just this part than any of the other part of it because that felt sense of turning towards some part of your experience is the quality that my very favorite IFS instructor, Robin Dixon, she was like, "If you are holding space for somebody, for IFS, for parts work, your whole job is to invite this experience, this quality of, of connection and attunement." Sometimes people, I think, can try to push away these other layers, and they want to go deep really fast. And I think that misses, like, this is the quality. Any little grain of this, like, either in, in yourself or if someone's holding space for you, the tiniest little bit of this is what can help bootstrap all the other, like, space for clarifying, for untangling, for choosing other modalities to work with, just this sense of like, "Yeah, yeah." So that yeah, so that's, that's basically this, this move that I'm really this first part is kind of, can I help catalyze that experience, help invite that in, really getting a part in the way it needs you to get it? And, and also just, like, noticing what happens when you make that connection. Like, the you know, did I do it or not? It's like there will be this sense of, like, relief. It's like, "Ah, yeah." So that is yes. Okay. This is a good space for some, some questions. Uh, yeah. Anybody have some, some things I'd like to say?

[00:21:04] Speaker 2: Yeah. How do you keep on focusing? This is a very particular ADHD question, but I also think my brain likes to, like, disassociate away from things specifically for other things. But, like, I will start somewhere focusing on breathing and suddenly think about my to-do list or the next essay I want to write, and it's going to take five minutes until I'm like, "This wasn't what we were supposed to do to get back." Do you have any tips on, like, actually staying there?

[00:21:28] Speaker 3: Yes. In fact, I think perhaps the next talk may have some, uh, one form of suggestion around that.

[00:21:34] Speaker 2: Yeah.

[00:21:35] Speaker 3: Um, Pranav's talk. And also, um, you could you could have somebody else help you out with that. I mean, that's one thing. If that's not the best option in that moment, you could you know, I've, I've known somebody to set a little timer, a little ding, a nice ding, not an angry ding that goes off every minute or five minutes or 30 seconds if you're really you're really in it and feeling it, um, to just be like, "Hey, where am I at?" and come back.

[00:22:09] Speaker 2: Just, just, just a YouTube video on replay. Like, there's like, "What are you thinking about right now?"

[00:22:13] Speaker 3: "Hey," you know? Yeah. So that something like that. Um, you know, you could follow along with, um I mean, heck, you could demo these slides, follow along with it. And then if you go off somewhere else and you come back to your computer and you're like, "Oh, I was looking at that thing. Oh, yeah. Hmm."

[00:22:31] Speaker 2: Thanks.

[00:22:31] Speaker 3: Yeah.

[00:22:34] Speaker 4: Do you find that going through these layers, like, going through figuring feeling the sensation, then feeling one's response to that, and then feeling the sensation of the response, generally leads to or all the time leads to this, "Yeah, okay, I understand," slight feeling? Or is it that it's, like, a technique towards getting that but not always sometimes you won't get to the source of that, that, that essentially, that feeling?

[00:23:02] Speaker 3: I think that it is always possible to, um that there is always some you might call it, like, a meta layer or a response layer that you would have that sense. You know, you could end up getting, like, distracted in the moment and not getting there. But, um, yeah, I think that I've always found when I actually remember to do it that there is some layer that I'm like even if it's like, "I don't like this whole thing," I'm like, "Yeah, I'm allowing myself to have the experience of I don't like this whole thing right now." Yeah.

[00:23:41] Speaker 4: Oh, let me know if I need to make this question more specific. But do you have any reflections on how that process might relate to, like, a chronic pain signal?

[00:23:49] Speaker 3: Hmm. How that might relate to a chronic pain signal? That one's not in my like, I don't have a lot of experience around that, either, like, personally or professionally. I know that some people talk about, um, Sarno, like a book by if anyone knows the rest of that title.

[00:24:11] Speaker 4: What back pain was?

[00:24:12] Speaker 3: Yeah. Healing Back Pain? Yeah, that might have I noticed a lot of people pointing toward that because it talks about emotions, patterns of emotional tension in relation to chronic pain. Um, yeah, I don't I don't know that I have better specifics on that.

[00:24:36] Speaker 4: What is your thoughts of the intensity? So when I do this practice, like, just now and many times, I get the sense that I want to allow myself to shake, make loud noise. It's like because it's so intense. And I'm not going to do that here today to bother people, but it's I'm, I'm just curious. What yeah, I, I how do you what, what recommendations do you have for people who, who are too busy and they feel it's so, so intense?

[00:25:12] Speaker 3: Yeah. So if it's feeling so intense, um, I guess there could be a, like, what do you do in a scene where it is not really feasible to, to change your environment in that moment so that you can express the intensity?

[00:25:27] Speaker 4: You feel like at work?

[00:25:28] Speaker 3: At work, yeah. Then you could turn toward, again, the, the part of you, the, the part of you that's tracking that constraint and, you know, treat it as, like, this is an objection or hesitation or concern and, and turn toward the kind of empathy with that of like, "Yeah." Like, like, um, in how to talk to the kids will listen, listen to the kids will talk, that kind of like, "Yeah, I really wish that I could, you know, completely ball and thrash right now." And, um or, or, like, yeah, giving the wish in fantasy is also one option of kind of like, you know, "I wish that this workplace had a screaming and thrashing around pod that was just, you know " like, like, validating kind of the, like, the wish, the need underneath that, even if the strategy of, like, busting out crying in the middle of an open plan office would have some consequences that, that you don't want, um, that's not necessarily worth the trade-off. And there are also, like, um, grounding strategies, like, um and I can talk more about that. And there, um, are also, like, modalities and practices that, uh, instead of saying, "Okay, the most important thing is to stay within your zone of tolerance, your window of tolerance," um, they say, "Hey, as long as you have this, like, access to a certain sense of, like, meta okayness or meta, metacognition or you're accompanied in this experience with somebody holding the space, um, it's deeply okay to go through a whole arc of, like, really big nervous system activation and, and metabolize it and, like, let it go through the arc and then and then and then go down from there." Um, the Psychedelic Somatic Institute has some cool practices around that one. Um, but if you are in a situation where keeping in that, that window of tolerance is more important, there's some things of, like, grounding in your sensory experience, you know, five things I see, four things I hear, um, three things I feel, maybe two things I smell or a thing I can taste in this moment. Or working with the breath. I like the, um, seeing if you can invite, like, an outbreath that is longer than the inbreath. Uh, and there's also an exercise from somatic experiencing called pendulation that is, like, going back and forth between, uh, areas in the body, sensations that have this, like, calm, grounded quality, and then going to the edge of areas that have this quality of activation or, or tension or constriction and, and kind of going back and forth. And that can invite a sense of, like, a larger space that is holding the, the activation.

[00:28:39] Speaker 2: Yeah.

[00:28:42] Speaker 3: Any other, uh, questions on that before we explore another part of this? Awesome. We'll go sip some water.

[00:29:00] Speaker 2: What?

[00:29:05] Speaker 3: Okay. So this next part is adapted from Feeding Your Demons, um, and also sort of from Core Transformation. Again, there is much more to both of these practices. This is sort of the, the intro part that can you know, it may it may not fully transform all the stuff that you're coming up with, but I think it, it is easy to remember and will get you, you know, all the way there with some stuff and part of the way there with other stuff. So this is asking you know, you've uh, and we'll, we'll take a moment after I sort of stop talking here to get back in touch with whatever sensation or part, um, is still the most salient in your experience, is still, like, wanting your attention. And asking these questions, what do you want, what do you need, and how will you feel when you get what you need? And then leaning into that sensation or leaning into the quality of that feeling as a sensation in the body, letting it be as big as it wants, and noticing what kind of shifts or changes happen. And this is a way to, to invite the kind of, um, experience that Chris was describing with his son of starting from a strategy of, like, "I need bigger and bigger stuff animals. I need to open this Christmas present right now." Um, and then going down these layers of, like, what do you need? Like, what is it about that that is I think you're asking, like, what is it about that that you don't like? But you can also ask, like, what is that for? What does that get you that's even deeper or more important? And then how will you feel when that when that need is met? And in that situation, it was like, you know, "I feel like I'm a I'm a little baby, and my mom is holding me," and the and feeling that sense of love. And so I'll, uh we can kind of step into this as a process, as an experiment, trying it on. If something you know, if it's, uh, doesn't quite flow like that, we can do some questions and maybe debugging later. But again, I just invite you to step back into that sense of, "Okay, what needs my attention right now? What is hopping up and down? What is what is activated?" And asking this part of you, like, what do you want? What is the, the strategy? What is this trying to get you to do which you may not endorse? It may be, like, "I want to smack that guy in the face." And, like, noticing what answers you get and also, like, writing that down. Hmm. I mean, maybe you feel ready knowing that folks move at different speeds in this. You can always go back to the slides and stuff. Ask this part of you, what do you need? What does that strategy get you? Is there anything even deeper or more important that you get through doing that? Maybe, you know, in the example of, "I want to smack that guy in the face," maybe what would satisfy that is, "I need to I need to really be heard and seen. I need to I need a sense of respect or communication or something." And maybe in this example with this if someone had a part that's like, "I need to be a good meditator," maybe there's actually a sense of, like, uh, "I really want to be accepted. I really want to belong in my in my group," or something like that. And then ask this part of you, how will you feel when you get what you need? You don't know until you sense into it, but it might be something like, you know, "I'll feel I'll feel deeply okay. I'll feel confident and strong. I'll feel comfortable and relaxed or playful." And when you get a sense of, you know, this question, how will you feel when you get what you need? I'd like to, to lean into that feeling as a sensation in the body. Can you let it be as big as it wants as a sensation? And this might be unfamiliar. You can also talk through different ways to kind of help that along. But as you're as you're feeling into that or as notice if there's any, any shifts or changes, um, in what's arising in, in this part, in its relationship to you or other parts. You can add notes to your cards and move them around in space. And sometimes when you when you when you get a part in the way that it needs to be gotten, you know, if it does need some of this process of, "Hey, I've been grasping at something," and there is this deeper underlying need or a series of them, we can talk about, like, going deeper and going deeper and there are other layers of that. But if that thing that it's been grasping at gets if it has a sense of that being filled experientially, you know, you may be able to again, kind of like it just softens back of its own accord. The, the message that it has been trying to, like, you know, knock on the bang on the door and get heard has been delivered. The thing has been addressed. And then you may be able to go and, and, like, connect with other parts of your experience, um, maybe notice, notice something new there, and have also just, uh, maybe a lot more spaciousness or clarity around the initial situation. Maybe you'll be able to, to see a lot more, um, options that didn't really you're laser-focused on trying to get a certain thing. You just may not be able to see, "Oh, there's another path that way. There's another option here." Yeah. And you may as you check back in with the initial situation, there may be something else that has arisen and might need some looping through on some of these some of these practices. So kind of in a summary of these of these two aspects, it can be really hard to just do things when your wants are all kind of clamoring for attention at the same time, layered on top of each other. But it can be a lot clearer if you can give those the space and attuned attention and understanding to say, "Okay, wait, to differentiate, okay, this is happening. This is happening. I have this want. I have this concern." Oop. And you can also think of it in layers kind of like this, like layers that go maybe you start with something. You kind of go up these layers of, like, "How do I feel toward that? How do I feel toward that?" until I have that, that turn towards, that sense of, like, "Yeah. Yeah, buddy. That makes sense." And then going back down the layers, you know, getting clear on this until it's just softens up its own accord, its message has been delivered, and then checking in with what's underneath that. Yeah. So here's that, that overview. And yeah, we can we can pause on this. We can pause on, um, maybe the troubleshooting, uh, slide here. And thank you so much for video recording this. I think that, like, we can leave off the troubleshooting part from the video, and I'll, I'll just audio record that. And yeah. Awesome. Okay. Any, any questions about that? Any challenges, um, coming up?

[00:41:34] Speaker 2: This is more of a recent development for me as I'm doing more, um, somatic practice and whatnot. Um, when I relax and I, I get into a space of relaxing, I get the typical, like, uh, meditators, uh, the shaking, the muscle spasms. And that's only and when I'm napping too, I get that a lot. Um, and I, I, I kind of had it just now, but I just didn't want to, to shake a whole bunch right here. Um, yeah, I, I don't know how to work with that really or how to interpret that.

[00:42:07] Speaker 3: Yeah. That question of, like, what, what about when you relax and, and shaking arises? Um, you know, so there are a lot of folks here with a greater depth and breadth of meditation-specific experience than I have, so you can go to many of those folks. Um, there's also a modality called TRE, trauma-releasing exercises, that is all about, um, trying to induce those on the theory that, uh, if an antelope gets chased by a lion, it will you know, if it escapes, it'll go and, and shake it out, and then it'll be fine. But because humans culturally, you know, have a little bit of self-consciousness around that, um, that might get that discharge, uh, might get interrupted, and then we have all kinds of tensions and tangles downstream with that. Um, I found TRE to be a little bit not quite as I didn't it didn't quite feel as good as when that arose spontaneously for me. But, um and I have known some folks that have had a little bit of, uh more came up than they were ready to handle with TRE-type stuff. But, um, yeah, I mean, I think if you can if something's arising spontaneously, if you can set aside some time in a space where you feel comfortable letting that work its way through, that's probably probably pretty good.

[00:43:34] Speaker 4: That's great.

[00:43:35] Speaker 3: Awesome.

[00:43:36] Speaker 4: Thanks.

[00:43:36] Speaker 3: Yeah.

[00:43:38] Speaker 2: Um, you said at the beginning that this is something that you're familiar with and you've known for a while, but even you forget to do it. I feel like this is a thing that happens a lot. A lot of people say this with the job as well. They're, like, able to hit infinite lists on demand, and they just kind of forget to do it. Do you have any theory as to why? Like, what, what stops this from being fully integrated into your day-to-day life and not something you have to consciously remind yourself to do?

[00:44:03] Speaker 5: Yeah. That's a, a super good question of, like, you know, if I know about this, but I don't, uh, do it in all the moments, we would be a really good fit. If John and people let don't always dip into infinite bliss on demand when they might benefit from it, like, how do you remember to do it and do it consistently? I think that's kind of, like, ish the whole of the path. And if you haven't if anybody has an answer, please, like, tell me. I might give a talk on it. So that's an extremely good question. And.

[00:44:42] Speaker 2: It's kind of funny, right? Like, I really do too.

[00:44:44] Speaker 5: Yeah. More post-it notes? There's probably not the well, I mean, maybe, maybe all those Zen monks that whack their students with sticks is, like, the equivalent of just, like, too many post-it notes around.

[00:44:58] Speaker 2: Well, the traditional answer is to get a gang, right, to do the manga.

[00:45:01] Speaker 5: Yeah.

[00:45:02] Speaker 2: I'm glad you were listening.

[00:45:04] Speaker 5: Yeah. I mean, even in the, the, uh oh, no, I don't want to do a spoiler. There's a very popular space-based movie.

[00:45:11] Speaker 2: Oh, I haven't seen it.

[00:45:12] Speaker 5: Um, no, no, just won't spoil it, but just that in one section, there is an acknowledgment and a reminder that it's good to have someone check in on, "Have you eaten and slept, etc.?" No, it's you can it's good.

[00:45:27] Speaker 2: If you're talking about Hail Mary, I haven't seen it yet.

[00:45:28] Speaker 5: No, no, I, I hope I hope that was not a spoiler. It was not, I don't think.

[00:45:32] Speaker 2: Okay. Okay.

[00:45:33] Speaker 5: Um.

[00:45:33] Speaker 2: I'll ask you after I watch what you said.

[00:45:35] Speaker 5: Yes. Um, okay. Other yes. And yeah.

[00:45:40] Speaker 6: Um, so I've done some IFS sessions with therapists before, and so I have very active imagination. It's very easy for me to, like, imagine shapes or imagine, like, parts and then have, like, a whole theme with them. And sometimes I'm not sure if it's actually helpful or if it's pulling me more into, like, uh, like avoidance of, "I'm just going to come up with stories." And yeah, I how do you, I guess, know that it's helpful or not?

[00:46:10] Speaker 3: That is a really good question. Um, you know, there are different approaches to IFS and also different ways that individuals, um, find that parts they work with parts work. Um, for some people, you know, you, you said your, your experience has been more on the side of, like, it's easy to have imagery, to have, like, narratives and scenes and, like, a bunch of stuff come up. Um, but then there's that question of, like, is this helping? Is this useful? Um, and I mean and, and I'll just tag before kind of going into that. There are people for whom they don't really have maybe internal visualizations. Maybe it's more like, um, body senses or other, like, words, memories, um, things like that. And I also find myself that I don't al I, I don't always tend to have, uh to relate to IFS parts as, like, recurring, richly personified characters. Uh, it's more like something arises when it has a, a, a need to let you know something, and then it kind of blends back into everything else otherwise. Like, you know, if I'm kind of I want to change the slide, you know, I'll pick this up and, and do it. I'm not thinking about my shoulder, my elbow, my wrist unless one of them is hurt, and then I might think of it as its own separate part. But otherwise, it's not even just my arm. It's just I'm, I'm picking the thing. But is it useful? Is it helping? You know, um, to me, I would say, "Okay, what is what is the are you, um, agreeing on, like, an intention or, like, a, a target of a pattern of thought, action, feeling at the beginning of a therapy session, um, that you're wanting to, to start from?" Uh, and then, you know, session happens. Um, at the end of it, if you have some more clarity, uh and, like, do you do you check back in with that clarity between sessions? Do you check in at the next session about, "Okay, you've gotten to that situation again at work or a similar one or in a relationship. Um, did you did you feel triggered again into the, the pattern that you've been working with, or did something new arise? Did you have access to new options?" Um, and kind of so, like, that loop of, like, setting a something to, to start from and, like, checking in on that, um, yeah, it's a I think that's how I would I would check. And if not, then adjusting, like, like in the cooking, like adjusting, like, "Did this work? Uh, maybe not. Maybe there's something else needed there."

[00:49:08] Speaker 6: Um, I know you have a lot of experience with psychedelic integration. Um, and an uncomfortable realization I just had is I, I had a really powerful and important experience with the Boga a couple of weeks ago. And because life is busy and that's easy to feel we, like, don't come back with things that help us, I, like, hadn't really until this weekend sat and done meditations and feel your feelings and this type of work. And to my great surprise and consternation, what I was noticing was that experience, like, w as part of that, I had this, like, moment where I just, like the, the, "Aw, buddy," I had such a large version of it. I was weeping for one of my managers, and it, it just, like, so acutely felt the, like, you know, the, the what that manager's been holding and just, like, such gratitude. And, and unfortunately, it appears because I had that large assisted experience, there's something unsatisfying.

[00:50:12] Speaker 3: Hmm.

[00:50:12] Speaker 6: About the smaller version. Like, I, I, I like, like, when I when I think about that experience, one of the things I, I've said is, like, I felt like, like and then I was, like, reaping the rewards of having done a bunch of the, like, coaching and, like, this type of work because I could put this together. And, like, without either piece, I would have had a smaller experience. And in that moment, I meant it as gratitude for the coaching and whatever work I've done or, like, yeah. But now I'm finding, like, like, I, I, like, don't want to do the inner work sober anymore because it doesn't feel as full and, like, "Whoa, that's not what I intended to," and I'm a little scared and here's a second thought.

[00:50:56] Speaker 3: Yeah. Okay. I'm going to just kind of maybe reflect that and check if I've got it. Um, after a big psychedelic experience, um, uh, you or during you had this experience of, like, the big, big, big version of that compassion toward a manager part.

[00:51:14] Speaker 6: Yeah.

[00:51:14] Speaker 3: That, like, yeah, like that gratitude for everything it's been doing, the big sense of, like, all this buildup in, um, therapy and, like, this psychedelic journeying, like, coming to this, this big transformation, this big point of, like.

[00:51:30] Speaker 6: Yeah.

[00:51:30] Speaker 3: I guess a release, a shift.

[00:51:32] Speaker 6: Yeah.

[00:51:32] Speaker 3: And then you're like.

[00:51:33] Speaker 6: Or just, like, like a, "Oh, all those words that I've heard, like, that this experience is what those words have been talking about."

[00:51:40] Speaker 3: Yeah.

[00:51:40] Speaker 6: And now when I am like, "Oh, nope, this isn't it," like, I was like, "This isn't it." Like, I know what the I know what the good ones like.

[00:51:45] Speaker 3: Okay.

[00:51:46] Speaker 6: This isn't it, like.

[00:51:47] Speaker 3: Okay. And so then, then, like, the, the little the little ones day to day, you're like, "Meh." Okay. Um, yeah, so, uh, I also have a lot of background with psychedelic integration and support. Um, and so I there, like, two things are coming to mind. One is that I sometimes think, "Oh, those big, big, big psychedelic shifts." Um, uh, Alexander Shulgin talked about a Shulgin scale of psychedelic, uh, experiences, and his top, um, I think a, a, a four on the Shulgin scale, you know, he said it's not reliably repeatable. And I think that one even with the same substance, you know, same dose, uh, I think that one part of that is almost like, um, the feeling of, like, if you're playing Tetris and you've, like, built up a bunch of, like, blocks and stuff, but you've got that, like, gap in the middle, and then a big long one comes in and it's like, and it, and it goes right where it needs to go, and it all, like, flashes and disappears and, like, untangles, like, that is maybe a part of the quality that you're, you're experiencing. You're like, "That was so good. Why can't I hit that button again?" And maybe because there's, like, not actually enough cruft built up to fuel a as big of a shift in that moment. Um, but it's a different it's also a different thing of, like, uh, how do you relate to the moment-to-moment little versions of the big, "Oh my God," um, compassion turning towards it, like, "Yeah, buddy, I get that." Um, yeah. And one thing maybe that you could try to do or, uh, see if this would how this would be is to notice, "Okay, how do you know that you're unsatisfied about the little things? Like, where, where is that resistance arising?" And treating that as a part and being like, you know, "Is there a is there any turning towards the, like like, how do you feel toward that sense of, like, 'Yeah, this little, little, little version's a suck. I want the big one.'" I'm like, "Who is?" Yeah. That's, that's maybe one, one invitation for Trailhead to try out. Yeah. Any other yeah. Any other, um yeah.

[00:54:32] Speaker 2: Um, I have two questions. Um, isn't this all talk obvious? And who is your opponent? I'm not kidding.

[00:54:39] Speaker 5: We just talked about that. Although, although I kind of I mean, I could answer that, but if you if you have another one that's like or yeah.

[00:54:48] Speaker 2: Uh, okay. So I've done this sort of exercise a few times, and, um, I find it really useful for kind of, like, self-discovery, like, "Oh, damn. I didn't know I had that shit going on." But it still feels like, uh, I like, the frequency of these, like, strong emotions doesn't, uh, change. Like, I still have them pretty frequently, and I still like, they're still, like, very intense. Um, so, uh, yeah, I guess I don't know what the question is, like, if I do I just keep on doing this over and over again and then just trust that someday it'll be less intense or?

[00:55:31] Speaker 3: That might there are, like, so many potential responses to that that that might be a kind of human complete question. Like, that might be a longer conversation with somebody that's, that's helping out with that or a, a, a, a gang, a sangha. Um, is it is it in response to that?

[00:55:48] Speaker 6: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

[00:55:48] Speaker 3: Okay. Okay. Yeah.

[00:55:50] Speaker 6: We need to integrate that. Um, as in, like, you have a right, like, you have a limit because express comes out. This is saying something earlier. I thought about very intense emotion. I think, like, it's kind of like a buffet where you want to integrate something. This is an opera. You might disagree. Um, whereas since, like, I think EDMR or, like, some kind of tapping is very great for that, like some physical stimulation, like, right, that gets your body to, like, calm down and get your gets your limbic system and your neural state into a calm moment. And then you want to integrate that calm moment with, like, the stressed state or the stressed feelings because neurons that wire together fire together, wire together, and, like, recreate this. And you want to, like that memory that whenever you go into an intense feeling, it becomes unstable, and it needs to consolidate again, right? So you want to take the, the memory, get it to an intense state, make it unstable, and then reconsolidate it to something, something calmer. And so, like, whatever helps you get to a calm state. I'm a big fan of anything that you can do, like, tapping. Meditation can be wonderful, but, like, I feel like a frustration I often hear is, like, "I get to these great states with meditations or, like, in calming, and then they don't help me in real life because it didn't connect it to me." You need to take the, the bad thing, connect it with the good thing would be, would be my opera. And, like, however, you can achieve that. Um, and sometimes it helps to walk around or to scream it out or to shake it out or, like, to get the body working, get the cortisol going, whatever works to get your, your limbic system to.

[00:57:12] Speaker 3: There's a huge ecosystem of practices to go deeper with all of this. This is kind of I was like, "What can fit in 50 minutes?" and which to speak to, we are at a little bit over there.

[00:57:21] Speaker 2: One more, one more question.

[00:57:22] Speaker 3: Okay.

[00:57:23] Speaker 2: Uh, I just wanted to echo that. Um, if you don't mind me sharing.

[00:57:26] Speaker 6: No, no, no. Sorry. I, I wasn't raising a hand.

[00:57:28] Speaker 2: Oh, no, no. I, I wanted to share about yesterday when we talked about, uh, respiration and some techniques, uh, for.

[00:57:35] Speaker 6: Go for it.

[00:57:36] Speaker 2: Um, so during the, uh, rejectathon, um, there was a little bit of apprehension on my team about, uh, going up and talking to people who hadn't consented to the container of what we were doing. Um, and one of the things I walked through with a teammate was, uh, some ways to let that activation hit, uh, but then quell the nervous system and then kind of just proceed through the thing, even if it feels weird. Um, and kind of that those, those practices that cross, um, you know, medial plane of the body, um, and integrate left and right hemispheres, I think, are really good. So there's I've done tapping before. We talked about, um, like, box breathing and, um, shifting the eyes, uh, actually left to right as a way to, uh, quell amygdala activity.

[00:58:28] Speaker 3: Yeah. There's, like, dual awareness practices, like EMDR, expanded awareness practices, um, a lot of things that have that juxtaposition of, uh, "Before, I was totally immersed in this and overwhelmed in this experience. I had no differentiation to be able to also just be with it." Um, a lot of different modalities to kind of have a new experience of, like, "That thing gets brought up, but I'm not but it's actually okay. I'm actually able to be with it," either through and, and I have, um, a lot of these extra slides if you you know, I'm not going to go over these right now, but if you do take a look at the, um, slides and you want to kind of just read over that, it has some of the background assumptions about parts where it kind of go into, like, "Yeah, where's, where's this coming from? What's the process?" So here's, again, the link to the slides. And also, uh, I'm going to host some kind of event in SF Wednesday night the 22nd, not this coming Wednesday, but the following one, something about surface area for luck or, like, holding space for each other around, like, stuff that deeply matters. I don't have a particle linker of Luma because it's not fully done yet, but if you want to get notified when it does crystallize, uh, come find me, and I'll write down your invite.

[00:59:48] Speaker 6: Okay. Yeah. Before we do the break, Chris has great thoughts on how we should live. And.

